<!-- Both your title and this description are made public and displayed in the conference program to help attendees decide whether they are interested in this presentation. Limit this description to a few concise paragraphs. -->

One of the most important phases of the development cycle is the testing phase. Testing allows a developer to determine if they have implemented what they are working on correctly. One major question though is "Are the tests being utilized written correctly?" Developers can rely on coverage as a metric to determine how much of the system is being executed during the testing phase, but coverage may not always be a good indicator of the fault detection effectiveness of a test suite. This can occur when a test has not been written very well and creates a scenario known as a pseudo-tested method. Simply put, a pseudo-tested method is a method that is being used in a test that will never fail, meaning that the method is being executed, but not tested effectively. It is "pseudo-tested" because the developer thinks that the method is being tested because it appears in a test case, but the test is not accurately detecting if there is an error and is providing a pass every time it is run.

Pseudo-tested methods are very difficult to detect. In fact, they are hard to detect because of the nature of them. They always pass, which begs the question, "Why investigate something that is not broken?" The only real way to find it manually. Which includes two ways: a developer is looking for a problem in the test suite, or if they know that they made an error, but notice that the test never fails. There is a way to automatically detect them for the Java programming language, but none for Python. Python also has the potential to contain more pseudo-tested methods because of the loosely-typed nature of the language. For this reason, pseudo-tested methods could be present in many test suites, including ones with a high coverage percentage. Which led to the creation of Function-Fiasco.

Function-Fiasco is an automatic detection system that finds pseudo-tested methods in Python based systems that are being tested under the Pytest framework. It finds methods in the system that is being observed and checks the return type. Once it has this, it randomizes an output that matches the return type to see if test cases that use this method still pass. If tests do still pass, the method is considered pseudo-tested.

This talk will show attendees that some of the tests that they are creating may not be actually testing the way that they intended. It will demonstrate how to use Function-Fiasco, and train attendees to write test cases that test their systems in a more effective fashion as it will raise the awareness of bad test cases. Beginners as well as more experienced programmers in the audience will gain a better understanding that in testing their systems, they need to ensure that their tests are effective, or their systems will not be testing behaviors correctly. It will also guide all developers to avoid pseudo-testing their systems.
